Code samples (#1311)
nasa-gcn/gcn.nasa.gov: app/routes/docs.client.samples.md

---
handle:
  breadcrumb: Code Samples
---

# Code Samples

> We have collected a short list of functions and examples that may be useful
> when working with GCN Notices in your code. These include conversions from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a collection of functions and example code that may be useful
when working with GCN Notices. These include conversions from
```

text and VOEvent alert formats to JSON and XML (for VOEvent alerts), how to save alerts,
and some samples from the FAQs section of the [gcn-kafka-python](https://github.com/nasa-gcn/gcn-kafka-python) repository.

For more examples, or to contribute your own ideas, see our [Utility Samples](https://github.com/nasa-gcn/gcn.nasa.gov/blob/CodeSamples/app/routes/docs.client.samples.md) and the [gcn-kafka-python](https://github.com/nasa-gcn/gcn-kafka-python) repository.

## Parsing

Within your consumer loop, use the following functions to convert the
content of <code>message.value()</code> into other data types.

> <code>xmltodict</code> is not a standard python package, it must be installed with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `xmltodict` package is not part of the Python standard library. You must install it by running:
```

pip:

```sh
pip install xmltodict
```

```python

> 

Reviewer: Remove excess whitespace:

```suggestion
```

import email
import xml.etree.ElementTree as ET
import xmltodict

def parse_text_alert_to_dict(message_value):
    return dict(email.message_from_bytes(message_value))

def parse_voevent_alert_to_xml_root(message_value):
    return ET.fromstring(message_value)

def parse_voevent_alert_to_dict(message_value):
    return xmltodict.parse(message_value)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

## Saving

Use the following to save the data to a local file:

```python
import json

def save_alert(message):
    with open('path/to/your/file', 'wb') as file:
        file.write(message.value())

```

## Keep track of the last read message when restarting a client

> A key feature of kafka consumer clients is the ability to perform persistent
> tracking of which messages have been read. This allows clients to recover
> missed messages after a restart by beginning at the earliest unread message
> rather than the next available message from the stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kafka can keep track of which messages your client has read, allowing your client to recover
missed messages after a restart by beginning at the earliest unread message
rather than the next available message from the stream.
```

> In order to enable this feature, you will need to set a client Group ID using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable this feature, you will need to set a client Group ID using
```

> the configuration dictionary argument for the Consumer class as well as change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the configuration dictionary argument for the Consumer and change
```

every new client with the given Group ID will begin reading the specified topic
at the earliest unread message.

> When doing this, it is recommended to turn OFF the auto commit

Reviewer: Use **bold** for emphasis rather than ALL CAPS.

```suggestion
When doing this, it is recommended to turn **off** the auto commit
```

feature because it can lose track of the last read message if the client
crashes before the auto commit interval (5 seconds by default) occurs.
Manually committing messages (i.e. storing the state of the last read message)
once they are read is the most robust method for tracking the last read
message.

```python
from gcn_kafka import Consumer

config = {'group.id': 'my group name',
          'auto.offset.reset': 'earliest',
          'enable.auto.commit': False}

consumer = Consumer(config=config,
client_id='fill me in',
client_secret='fill me in',

> domain='gcn.nasa.gov')

Reviewer: Fix indentation.

Reviewer: This and a few other comments are not resolved. Did you forget to push something?

topics = ['gcn.classic.voevent.FERMI_GBM_SUBTHRESH']
consumer.subscribe(topics)

while True:
    for message in consumer.consume(timeout=1):

>         print(message.value())

Reviewer: Add missing error handling (see our client sample code).

        consumer.commit(message)
```

## Read messages beginning at the earliest available messages for a given stream

To read a given topic stream from the earliest message that is
present in the stream buffer, set the Group ID to an empty string and
applying the 'earliest' setting for the auto offset reset option in the
configuration dictionary argument for the Consumer class.

This feature allows the user to scan for older messages for testing purposes or
to recover messages that may have been missed due to a crash or network outage.
Keep in mind that the stream buffers are finite in size. They currently hold
messages from the past few days.

```python
from gcn_kafka import Consumer

config = {'auto.offset.reset': 'earliest'}

consumer = Consumer(config=config,
                    client_id='fill me in',
                    client_secret='fill me in',
                    domain='gcn.nasa.gov')

topics = ['gcn.classic.voevent.INTEGRAL_SPIACS']
consumer.subscribe(topics)

while True:
    for message in consumer.consume(timeout=1):

>         print(message.value())

Reviewer: Add missing error handling (see our client sample code).

```

## Search for messages occurring within a given date range

> To search for messages in a given date range, use the <code>offsets_for_times()</code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To search for messages in a given date range, use the `offsets_for_times()`
```

> function from the Consumer class to get the message offsets for the desired date range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method from the Consumer class to get the message offsets for the desired date range.
```

Then assign the starting offset to the Consumer and read the desired number of messages.
When doing so, keep in mind that the stream buffers are finite in size. It is not
possible to recover messages prior to the start of the stream buffer. The GCN stream
buffers are currently set to hold messages from the past few days.

```python
import datetime from gcn_kafka
import Consumer from confluent_kafka
import TopicPartition

consumer = Consumer(client_id='fill me in',
                    client_secret='fill me in',
                    domain='gcn.nasa.gov')

# get messages occurring 3 days ago
timestamp1 = int((datetime.datetime.now() - datetime.timedelta(days=3)).timestamp() * 1000)
timestamp2 = timestamp1 + 86400000 # +1 day

topic = 'gcn.classic.voevent.INTEGRAL_SPIACS'
start = consumer.offsets_for_times(
    [TopicPartition(topic, 0, timestamp1)])
end = consumer.offsets_for_times(
    [TopicPartition(topic, 0, timestamp2)])

consumer.assign(start)
for message in consumer.consume(end[0].offset - start[0].offset, timeout=1):
    print(message.value())

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

```python

import email
import xml.etree.ElementTree as ET
import xmltodict

def parse_text_alert_to_dict(message_value):
    return dict(email.message_from_bytes(message_value))

def parse_voevent_alert_to_xml_root(message_value):
    return ET.fromstring(message_value)

def parse_voevent_alert_to_dict(message_value):
    return xmltodict.parse(message_value)

```

## Saving

The following can be used to save the data to a local file:

```python
import json

def save_text_alert(message_value):
    # Save incoming event message as text file:
    with open('path/to/your/file.txt', 'w') as file:
        file.write(message_value.decode())

    # Save incoming event message as json file:
    alert_data = parse_text_alert_to_dict(message_value)
    with open("path/to/your/file.json", "wb") as file:
        file.write(json.dumps(alert_data))

def save_voevent_alert(message_value):
    # Save incoming vo event as a json file
    dataDict = parse_voevent_alert_to_dict(message_value)
    with open('path/to/your/file.json', "w") as file:
        file.write(json.dumps(dataDict))

    # Or save incoming vo event as xml
    with open('path/to/your/file.xml', "w") as file:

>         file.write(message_value.decode())

Reviewer: You only really need a single example here:

```python
with open(filename, 'wb') as f:
    f.write(message.value())
```
